but hidden continent has been discovered
on earth our planet is a goldmine of
unsolved mysteries
but would you have ever thought there
could be such a huge one as a hidden
continent before we explore this secret
place hit that subscribe button and ring
the bell icon so that you don't miss a
thing here on the bright side of life
for decades people thought they knew all
about the tectonic structure of our
planet I mean we've been touched since
kindergarten that there are exactly
seven continents right the oceans might
be mostly unexplored but we're confident
that we've seen everything the earth has
to offer in terms of land mass however
geologists have recently rocked the
world with an astonishing discovery they
claim to have found in a continent
Zealandia that's the name of a piece of
sunken continental crust off the coast
of Australia that was first coined in
1995 by Bruce Liu indict a geophysicist
at the University of California Santa
Barbara at the time the submerged land
mass was thought to be just a slab of
rock lying right beneath New Zealand and
New Caledonia
which were both considered to be Islands
chains a 2016 study called Zealandia
Earth's hidden continent that was
published in the Journal of Geological
Society of America concluded that the
facts are quite different from what we
used to believe the scientists who took
part in the research gathered
information from the last 10 years and
found that this huge underwater plateau
was in fact a sunken continent can you
imagine all data pointed to this the
diversity of rocks within the slab the
height differences with the ocean floor
the satellite scans everything the most
surprising thing is that New Zealand and
New Caledonia have actually been a part
of this huge rock this whole time
they're not Islands as we previously
thought but simply Peaks jutting out of
an unbroken continental Plateau
that knowledge to your geography teacher
the continent of Zealandia separated
from Australia about 60 to 85 million
years ago like all the modern continents
we know and love
they both had been part of the super
continent called Gondwana until recently
it was thought that continents can't go
underwater like this in one huge piece
leaving only parts poking out above the
water's surface
just so you know Zealandia measures 1.9
million square miles which is roughly
two-thirds of Australia's area but over
94 percent of it is hidden a mile deep
beneath the Pacific Ocean naturally very
little is known about this mysterious
piece of land to get an idea of exactly
how little consider this there's some
more information about the moon than
there is about Zealandia but why is it
even considered a continent if it's
submerged in the ocean we're used to
thinking that continents are basically
pieces of dry land large enough to house
billions of living creatures this isn't
exactly true however continents are
classified by different criteria and
being above water isn't among them
surprise well you should be
one of the most important signs of a
continent is its elevation above the
ocean floor notice I didn't say surface
it's been known for over a century now
that areas north and south of new
zealand are elevated enough to be called
continental crust Zealandia however has
struggled to earn that title simply
because it's a lot wider and deeper than
most continents but you have to consider
the fact that the sea level has risen a
lot since the time of Zealandia
separation from australia so it very
well could have become submerged much
later talk about Atlantis and its
mysteries the second thing to factor
into the Continental nature of Zealandia
is its geological features elevation
above the ocean floor by itself isn't
enough to call a slab of rock a
continent of course so scientists
include other signs to make this vague
definition a little clearer oceanic
crust consists largely of basalt and
gabbro continental crust on the other
hand contains various indigenous
metamorphic and sedimentary rocks such
as granite limestone or schist Zealandia
strain although deep underwater has
all these and more there have been
dozens of sea expeditions in the past 20
years that managed to take samples of
the crust and they all came to a single
conclusion the rocks they found were
those of a continental nature not an
oceanic one the third piece of evidence
that we found in 8th continent is that
it's thick enough to earn this title
oceanic floor is typically 4.4 miles
thick while continental crust is a lot
dirtier than that Zealandia thickness
ranges from six point two to eighteen
point six miles of course this is a lot
less than your average continental
thickness which is typically up to
twenty-eight point five miles but it's
still thicker than the ocean floor so
going off the cold hard facts that's
enough to consider Zealandia a bona fide
continent after all you can't argue with
the data now can you and finally there's
the aspect of boundaries and area when
it comes to classifying a continent you
shouldn't be surprised by now to learn
that yet again Zealandia meets all the
necessary criteria continents have very
clearly defined natural edges that's why
for example despite its enormous size
greenland is regarded as part of north
america not the continent of its own as
for the size of a true continent
scientists haven't yet come to any
single unified conclusion on that there
is such a thing as a micro continent
Madagascar moe-rita being just a couple
of examples of that so since Zealandia
is dozens of times bigger than either of
those two places it can definitely be
called a full-sized continent without
any microt in front of it with all that
being said you know that Zealandia has
met all the criteria to be deemed a
continent the most interesting part is
that there is no scientifically accepted
checklist for continent hood that's
right no scientific body formally
recognizes continents so perhaps it's
only a matter of time until kids are
learning about the eight continents of
the world instead of the traditional
seven Zealandia has been a subject of
debate for over two decades now and that
2016 study I mentioned earlier showed
all the evidence to support the movement
to classify Zealandia as
the researchers added that the
scientific value of classifying
Zealandia as a continent is much more
than just an extra name on the list
basically it'd be incredibly useful for
the scientific community if they could
further explore the nature of Sealand is
continental crust a continent that can
be so submerged yet remain intact for
all of this time is a real find for
geologists all over the world it's
exciting to think of this incredible
opportunity scientists have now we can
find out so many things about our planet
that we couldn't have ever imagined
before realizing there was a whole new
land lying hidden from sight in the
depths of the Pacific Ocean just imagine
the shock New Zealanders must have
experienced after learning they've been
living on a real continent not a chain
of islands and it gets even more
exciting when you think of what other
discoveries might be made in the future
it's kind of like a big game of
hide-and-seek entire continents waiting
to be found
hey who knows maybe one of these days
we'll find Atlantis after all so bright
ciders after finding out about Zealandia
do you believe there could be even more
than eight continents in the world share
your theories in the comments below
don't forget to give this video a like
share it with your friends school your
old geography teacher and click
subscribe to always stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]